hi this is press talker in this video
we're going to explain why gas stations
are often located next to each other
let's think about two hotdog stands that
are on a beach
each hotdogs and wants to be closest to
the most customers we can think about
the shoreline as being a straight line
that goes from one end to the other if
the blue and green hotdog stands spread
out evenly across the beach then the
blue stand will get all the customers to
the left of the middle and the green
stand will get all the customers to the
right of the middle this location of the
two stands is very good for everyone
involved the two stands spread the beach
evenly and they're closest to customers
on both sides customers left-of-center
can go to the blue stand and customers
right at the center can go to the green
stand however each stand wants to locate
to be closer to more customers so the
green stand thinks what happens if I
move closer to the blue stand when the
green stand moves closer it actually
captures some of the customers that were
going to the blue stand so now the green
stand has more than half of the beach
because it's closer to more customers
the blue stand thinks about the
situation and decides that it can get
its customers back by moving closer to
the center as well so the blue stand
moves over to the center and it regains
some of its customers as you can see the
blue and green stands both want to move
closer to the center so that they can
get more customers and be closer to
customers than the other stand
ultimately they both end up at the
center and at this point they're equally
close to all the customers that are
along the shoreline so they split the
custom
evenly and there's an interesting thing
at this point is that neither stand is
going to want to move if either stand
moves to the left or the right then that
stand is going to get less than half the
customers so this is the solution to the
game and this is the reason why
businesses often locate right next to
each other when competing on location
everyone wants the central location to
be as close to as many customers as
possible this is true for gas stations
it's also true for fast-food chains and
it's even true for political candidates
during election campaigns they all go to
the center position to seek out the
average vote so although we would be
better served if the stands and
businesses were spread out because of
competition they all move to the center
I hope you like this video please
subscribe to my channel you can catch me
on my blog mind your decisions or on
Twitter at fresh talker and if you like
this video please buy my book on game
theory this example of gas stations is
the first chapter in my book you can get
my book in paperback and ebook form at
amazon.com it's called the joy of game
theory and introduction to strategic
thinking